Vue Spring Boot CRUD updated (#1244)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-08-15-spring-boot-crud-update.md

`src/router/index.js`

```js
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import { navigationGuard } from '@okta/okta-vue'
import Todos from "@/components/Todos";
import Home from "@/components/Home";
import { LoginCallback } from '@okta/okta-vue'

const routes = [
    {
        path: '/',
        component: Home
    },
    {
        path: '/todos',
        component: Todos,
        meta: {
            requiresAuth: true
        }
    },
    { path: '/login/callback', component: LoginCallback },
]

const router = createRouter({
    history: createWebHistory(process.env.BASE_URL),
    routes,
})

router.beforeEach(navigationGuard)

export default router
```

The router has three paths. The home path and the todos path are straightforward. The last path, `/login/callback`, is provided by the Okta module and it is what handles the login redirect from the Okta servers after authentication.

Create the `Home` component.

`src/components/Home.vue`

```vue
<template>
  <div class="column justify-center items-center" id="row-container">
    <q-card class="my-card">
      <q-card-section style="text-align: center">
        <div v-if='authState && authState.isAuthenticated' >

>           <h6 v-if="claims && claims.email">You are logged in as {{ '{{' }}claims.email}}</h6>

Reviewer: You should be able to wrap the whole code block with `{% raw %}` and `{% endraw %}`.

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "Spring Boot CRUD app with Vue and Quasar"

Reviewer: We should match the title and the URL of the one we're trying to update as much as possible. We're updating the following post with this one:

https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/11/20/build-crud-spring-and-vue

You might even want to match the headings. We don't want Google to think too much has changed. You'll also need to update [`_redirects_`] and and add a `redirect_to` in the front matter of the previous post.

```yaml
redirect_to:
  - "/blog/2022/08/18/build-crud-spring-and-vue"
```

Reviewer 2: So, something like "Build a Spring Boot CRUD App with Vue.js and Quasar" OR "Build a Simple CRUD App with Spring Boot, Vue.js, and Quasar" OR can we leave it exactly as is? The original title scores better (57, neutral) in sentiment analysis, the other two score negative.

Reviewer: I think the same title is best. For my Spring Boot SAML post, I did alter it slightly, removing "Okta" from the title.

Reviewer 2: wfm!

author: andrew-hughes
by: contractor
communities: [java,javascript]

> description: "Build a Spring Boot Todo app with a Vue client using Okta for security and the Quasar framework for client components"

Reviewer: Match the same description as the previous one. You can improve it if you like, but it seems to have worked well so far.

tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion

---

You're going to use Vue and Spring Boot to build a todo list web application. The application will include CRUD abilities, meaning that you will be able to **c**reate, **r**ead, **u**pdate, and **d**elete the todo items on the Spring Boot server via the client. The Vue front-end client will use the Quasar framework for presentation. Both the Spring Boot server and the Vue client will be secured with OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) using Okta as the security provider.

{% img blog/spring-boot-crud-update/spring-and-vue.png alt:"Spring Boot, Vue, and Okta logos" width:"500" %}{: .center-image }

This project has two major parts:

> - Spring Boot server

Reviewer: I tend to say API rather than server, but you may choose your own destiny.

Author: That makes sense. I'm happy either way. "server" does sound a bit like a physical server.

- Vue client

The Spring Boot server will include an H2 in-memory database and will use Spring Data JPA to map our todo data model to a database table for persistence. As you'll see, the server will leverage Spring Boot's ability to quickly expose data via a REST API with a minimum of configuration.

> The client will use [Vue 3](https://vuejs.org/) and the Quasar Framework. [The Quasar Framework](https://quasar.dev/) provides components and layout tools to help build Vue applications quickly with a consistent, high-quality user interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The client will use [Vue 3](https://vuejs.org/) and the Quasar framework. [The Quasar framework](https://quasar.dev/) provides components and layout tools to help build Vue applications quickly with a consistent, high-quality user interface.
```
consistency

**Prerequisites:**

> - [Java 11](https://adoptium.net/): or use [SDKMAN!](https://sdkman.io/) to manage and install multiple version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Java 11](https://adoptium.net/): or use [SDKMAN!](https://sdkman.io/) to manage and install multiple versions
```
typo

- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/manual/#installation)

- [HTTPie](https://httpie.org/doc#installation)

- [Node 16+](https://nodejs.org)
- [Vue CLI](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/installation.html)

You will need a free Okta Developer account if you don't already have one. But you can wait until later in the tutorial and use the Okta CLI to login or register for a new account.

## Create Okta OIDC app

Open a Bash shell. Create a parent directory for the project. Eventually, this will include both the resource server and client projects.

```bash
mkdir spring-boot-vue-crud
cd spring-boot-vue-crud
```

> If you already have an Okta account, log in using `okta login`. If you need to register for a new, free account: `okta register`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you already have an Okta account, log in using `okta login`. If you need to register for a new, free account, use: `okta register`.
```

Create an OIDC app using the following command:

```bash
okta apps create
```

**Application name**: `spring-boot-vue-crud`

**Type of Application**: `2: Single Page App`

> **Redirect URI(s)**: `http://localhost:8080/login/callback`

Reviewer: You should be able to use the CLI include for this section. https://developer.okta.com/blog/setup#vue

Author: Does the CLI include allow me to specify a `redirect URI`?

Reviewer: Yes. See the link above or the README for the syntax.

All other defaults are fine.

Your console should finish with something like this:

```bash
...
Configuring a new OIDC Application, almost done:
Created OIDC application, client-id: 0oa5rdbh01J0293u209
|
Okta application configuration: 
Issuer:    https://dev-123567.okta.com/oauth2/default
Client ID: 0oa5rdbh01J0293u209
```

> Copy the client ID and issuer URI somewhere. You'll need them for both the client and resource server applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copy the client ID and issuer URI somewhere safe. You'll need them for both the client and resource server applications.
```

## Bootstrap the Spring Boot app using Spring Initializr

You're going to use [the Spring Initializr](start.spring.io/) to create a starter project for the resource server. You can take a look at the project website if you want, but here you're going to use the REST API to download a pre-configured starter.

The following command will download the starter project and un-tar it to a new directory named `resource-server`.

```bash
curl https://start.spring.io/starter.tgz \

>   -d bootVersion=2.6.10 \

Reviewer: Use 2.7.2, a 3.0 milestone, or no version at all. Spring Boot seems to be better than most at maintaining backward compatibility between major versions.

Author: I tried that. I get this error. "Dependency 'okta' is not compatible with Spring Boot 2.7.2"
```bash
curl https://start.spring.io/starter.tgz \
  -d bootVersion=2.7.2 \
  -d jvmVersion=11 \
  -d dependencies=web,data-rest,lombok,data-jpa,h2,okta \
  -d type=gradle-project \
  -d baseDir=resource-server
{"timestamp":"2022-08-17T18:24:25.088+00:00","status":400,"error":"Bad Request","message":"Dependency 'okta' is not compatible with Spring Boot 2.7.2","path":"/starter.tgz"}
```

Reviewer: @bdemers Do you know how to get this fixed on start.spring.io?

Reviewer: I created an issue to track and fix: https://github.com/okta/okta-spring-boot/issues/462

Reviewer: @moksamedia I think it'd be good to use a two-step approach in this post: 

1. Clone a repo, configure the app, run it, then explain it.
2. Show how to create from scratch.

This makes it easier to maintain because the "create from scratch" steps will stop working after a couple of years. This is because start.spring.io removes versions.

Also, I just realized my recent update to [Spring Boot React](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2022/06/17/simple-crud-react-and-spring-boot) doesn't use the clone a repo approach, so you can do whatever you like. ;-)

  -d jvmVersion=11 \
  -d dependencies=web,data-rest,lombok,data-jpa,h2,okta \
  -d type=gradle-project \
  -d baseDir=resource-server \
| tar -xzvf - && cd resource-server
```

The dependencies you're including are:

> - `web`: [Spring Web MVC](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/3.2.x/spring-framework-reference/html/mvc.html), adds basic HTTP rest functionality

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `web`: [Spring Web MVC](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/3.2.x/spring-framework-reference/html/mvc.html), adds basic HTTP REST functionality
```
acronym spelling

- `data-jpa`: [Spring Data JPA](https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-jpa), makes it easy to create JPA-based repositories

> - `data-rest`: [Spring Data Rest](https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-rest), exposes Spring Data repositories as resource servers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `data-rest`: [Spring Data REST](https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-rest), exposes Spring Data repositories as resource servers
```

- `h2`: the [H2](https://www.h2database.com/html/main.html) in-memory database used for demonstration purposes
- `lombok`: [Project Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/), adds some helpful annotations that eliminate the need to write a lot of getters and setters
- `okta`: [Okta Spring Boot Starter](https://github.com/okta/okta-spring-boot) that helps OAuth 2.0 and OIDC configuration

## Update the Secure Spring Boot app

Open the application properties file and update it. You're changing the server port so it doesn't conflict with the default Vue local server (which also defaults `8080`). 

`src/main/resources/application.properties`

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```properties
```

server.port=9000
okta.oauth2.issuer=<your-issuer-uri>
okta.oauth2.clientId=<your-client-id>
```

**You need to replace the two bracketed values** with the values you generated above for the OIDC app using the Okta CLI.

> Open the `build.gradle` file and change the `sourceCompatibility` from 17 to 11. I think this should have been done by the `jvmVersion` flag when the project was downloaded via the REST API. However, for me, it wasn't. If you're running Java 17 locally, it won't matter, but if you're running Java 11 this will cause an error when you try and run the project.

Reviewer: Can you enter a bug for this? https://github.com/spring-io/initializr/issues They're usually pretty quick at fixing things like this.

Author: https://github.com/spring-io/initializr/issues/1325

```groovy
sourceCompatibility = '11'
```

You can run the bootstrapped project right now and see if it starts. It should start but won't do much.

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

> Create a class to configure web security. The class below configures web security to allow all requests, effectively bypassing security. This is just so you can test the resource server initially. You'll enable security shortly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `SecurityConfiguration` class to configure Spring Security. The class below configures web security to allow all requests, effectively bypassing security. This is just so you can test the resource server initially. You'll enable security shortly.
```

> `src/main/java/com/example/demo/OAuth2ResourceServerSecurityConfiguration.java`

Reviewer: I'd rename this class to `SecurityConfiguration`. No need to make Java look bad. ;)

```java
package com.example.demo;

import com.okta.spring.boot.oauth.Okta;
import org.springframework.http.HttpMethod;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.builders.HttpSecurity;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.configuration.EnableWebSecurity;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.configuration.WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter;

@EnableWebSecurity
public class OAuth2ResourceServerSecurityConfiguration extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

    @Override
    protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {

        http.authorizeRequests()
            .anyRequest().permitAll();

        // Send a 401 message to the browser (w/o this, you'll see a blank page)
        Okta.configureResourceServer401ResponseBody(http);

>     }

Reviewer: Please update to use a `@Bean` instead of `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter`. https://spring.io/blog/2022/02/21/spring-security-without-the-websecurityconfigureradapter

Author: OK

}
```

Replace the `DemoApplication.java` file with the following.

`src/main/java/com/example/demo/DemoApplication.java`

```java
package com.example.demo;

import org.springframework.boot.ApplicationRunner;
import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
import org.springframework.boot.web.servlet.FilterRegistrationBean;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;
import org.springframework.core.Ordered;
import org.springframework.data.rest.core.config.RepositoryRestConfiguration;
import org.springframework.data.rest.webmvc.config.RepositoryRestConfigurer;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;
import org.springframework.web.cors.CorsConfiguration;
import org.springframework.web.cors.UrlBasedCorsConfigurationSource;
import org.springframework.web.filter.CorsFilter;
import org.springframework.web.servlet.config.annotation.CorsRegistry;

import java.util.Collections;
import java.util.Random;
import java.util.stream.Stream;

@SpringBootApplication

> public class DemoApplication {

Reviewer: Please convert tabs to spaces in all code snippets.

		};
	}

	// Fix the CORS errors
	@Bean
	public FilterRegistrationBean simpleCorsFilter() {
		UrlBasedCorsConfigurationSource source = new UrlBasedCorsConfigurationSource();
		CorsConfiguration config = new CorsConfiguration();
		config.setAllowCredentials(true);
		// *** URL below needs to match the Vue client URL and port ***
		config.setAllowedOrigins(Collections.singletonList("http://localhost:8080"));
		config.setAllowedMethods(Collections.singletonList("*"));
		config.setAllowedHeaders(Collections.singletonList("*"));
		source.registerCorsConfiguration("/**", config);
		FilterRegistrationBean bean = new FilterRegistrationBean<>(new CorsFilter(source));
		bean.setOrder(Ordered.HIGHEST_PRECEDENCE);
		return bean;
	}

    // Expose IDs of Todo items
	@Component
	class RestRespositoryConfigurator implements RepositoryRestConfigurer {
		public void configureRepositoryRestConfiguration(RepositoryRestConfiguration config, CorsRegistry cors) {
			config.exposeIdsFor(Todo.class);
		}
	}
	
}

```

This demo application does three things that are helpful for demonstration purposes. First, it loads some test todo items into the repository. 

> Second, it configures the rest repository to expose IDs for the todo items. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Second, it configures the REST repository to expose IDs for the todo items. 
```

> Third, it defines a filter to allow cross-origin requests from `localhost:8080`. This is necessary so that the Vue application, which is loaded from `localhost:9000` via the local test server, can load data from the Spring Boot resource server at `localhost:8080`. 

Reviewer: It might be better to say `http://localhost:8080` so the reader can pattern match with the code above.

For more info on CORS (cross-origin resource sharing), take a look at [the Mozilla docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).

Now, create the data model for the todo items. 

`src/main/java/com/example/demo/Todo.java`

```java
package com.example.demo;

import lombok.*;

import javax.persistence.Id;
import javax.persistence.GeneratedValue;
import javax.persistence.Entity;

@Entity
@Data
@NoArgsConstructor
public class Todo {

    @Id @GeneratedValue
    private Long id;

    @NonNull
    private String title;

    private Boolean completed = false;

}
```

> 

Reviewer: Because you're using Lombok, you should remind folks that they need a plugin if they're using an IDE. Or, remove the use of Lombok.

                },
                "completed": false,
                "id": 1,
                "title": "Buy milk"
            },
            {
                "_links": {
                    "self": {
                        "href": "http://localhost:9000/todos/2"
                    },
                    "todo": {
                        "href": "http://localhost:9000/todos/2"
                    }
                },
                "completed": true,
                "id": 2,
                "title": "Eat pizza"
            },
            ...
        ]
    },
...
}
```

Stop the resource server using `control-c`. 

Edit the security configuration file, updating the configure method to the following.

`src/main/java/com/example/demo/OAuth2ResourceServerSecurityConfiguration.java`

```java
@Override
protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {

    http.authorizeRequests()
        .anyRequest().authenticated()
        .and()
        .oauth2ResourceServer().jwt();

    // Send a 401 message to the browser (w/o this, you'll see a blank page)
    Okta.configureResourceServer401ResponseBody(http);
}
```

This configuration requires JWT auth on all requests.

> Re-start the server. Use `control-c` stop it if it's running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Restart the server. Use `control-c` to stop it if it's running.
```

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

Use HTTPie again to try and request the todo items.

```bash
http :9000/todos
```

You will get an error.

```bash
HTTP/1.1 401 
...

401 Unauthorized

```

The resource server is finished. The next step is to create the Vue client.

> ## Create the Vue Javascript client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create the Vue JavaScript client
```

From the project parent directory, use the Vue CLI to create a new application and navigate into the newly created `client` directory.

```bash

>  vue create client && cd client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vue create client
cd client
```

I'd do this on two lines so it works for Windows users.

```

Pick `Default Vue 3`

> Wait for it to finish. Add the Quasar Framework.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wait for it to finish. Add the Quasar framework.
```
consistency

```bash
vue add quasar
```

You can just accept the defaults. For me they were the following.

- **Allow Quasar to replace App.vue, About.vue, Home.vue and (if available) router.js?** Yes
- **Pick your favorite CSS preprocessor:** Sass
- **Choose Quasar Icon Set:** Material
- **Default Quasar language pack:** en-US
- **Use RTL support?** No

Add our dependencies.

```bash

> npm i --save axios vuejs3-logger vue-router@4 @okta/okta-vue

Reviewer: --save is no longer needed since npm 5. https://dev.to/dailydevtips1/you-don-t-need-save-anymore-for-npm-installs-4min

Reviewer: Please pin dependencies to a specific version so people doing this tutorial can reproduce.

```

- `axios` is an HTTP client request library
- `vuejs3-logger` is a logging library
- `vue-router` is the standard for routing between pages in Vue
- `okta/okta-vue` is the Okta helper for Vue

To learn more about how Okta integrates with Vue, take a look at [the GitHub page](https://github.com/okta/okta-vue) for the `okta/okta-vue` project. There are also more resources and example applications listed on in [the general Okta docs](https://developer.okta.com/code/vue/).

> Replace `main.js` with the following. Look at the `OktaAuth` configuration object. Notice the client ID and issuer URI are pulled from a `.env` file.

Reviewer: Can you add a comment in the source below to show where it's pulling from `.env`?

Author: Yes

`src/main.js`

```js
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import { Quasar } from 'quasar'
import quasarUserOptions from './quasar-user-options'
import VueLogger from 'vuejs3-logger'
import router from './router'
import createApi from './Api'

import { OktaAuth } from '@okta/okta-auth-js'
import OktaVue from '@okta/okta-vue'

if (process.env.VUE_APP_ISSUER_URI == null || process.env.VUE_APP_CLIENT_ID == null || process.env.VUE_APP_SERVER_URI == null) {
	throw "Please define VUE_APP_ISSUER_URI, VUE_APP_CLIENT_ID, and VUE_APP_SERVER_URI in .env file"
}

const oktaAuth = new OktaAuth({

>     issuer: process.env.VUE_APP_ISSUER_URI,

Reviewer: Two space indents for JS.

Author: OK. I'll fix it.

    clientId: process.env.VUE_APP_CLIENT_ID,

>     redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/callback',
```
This is what the CLI uses by default.

    scopes: ['openid', 'profile', 'email']
})

const options = {
    isEnabled: true,
    logLevel : 'debug',
    stringifyArguments : false,
    showLogLevel : true,
    showMethodName : false,
    separator: '|',
    showConsoleColors: true
};

const app = createApp(App)
    .use(Quasar, quasarUserOptions)
    .use(VueLogger, options)
    .use(OktaVue, {oktaAuth})
    .use(router)

app.config.globalProperties.$api = createApi(app.config.globalProperties.$auth)

app.mount('#app')
```

> Stated very briefly, the file above creates the main Vue app and configures it to use our dependencies: Quasar, VueLogger, OktaVue, and the router. It also creates the Api class that handles the requests to the resource server and passes it the `$auth` object it needs to get the JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stated very briefly, the file above creates the main Vue app and configures it to use our dependencies: Quasar, VueLogger, the Okta Vue SDK, and the router. It also creates the `Api` class that handles the requests to the resource server and passes it the `$auth` object it needs to get the JWT.
```

> Stated very briefly, the file above creates the main Vue app and configures it to use our dependencies: Quasar, VueLogger, OktaVue, and the router. It also creates the Api class that handles the requests to the resource server and passes it the `$auth` object it needs to get the JWT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stated very briefly, the file above creates the main Vue app and configures it to use our dependencies: Quasar, VueLogger, OktaVue, and the router. It also creates the API class that handles the requests to the resource server and passes it the `$auth` object it needs to get the JWT.
```

> Create a `.env` file in the client project root directory. The **Client ID** and **Issuer URI** are the values you used above in the Spring Boot `application.properties` file. The **Server URI** is the local URI for the Spring Boot server is you can leave as it is unless you made a change (this gets used in the `Api.js` module).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a `.env` file in the client project root directory. The **Client ID** and **Issuer URI** are the values you used above in the Spring Boot `application.properties` file. The **Server URI** is the local URI for the Spring Boot server. You can leave as it is unless you made a change (this gets used in the `Api.js` module).
```

`.env`

```env
VUE_APP_CLIENT_ID=<your-client-id>
VUE_APP_ISSUER_URI=<your-issuer-uri>
VUE_APP_SERVER_URI=http://localhost:9000
```

> It's important to note that putting values like this in a `.env` file in a client application does not make then secure. It helps by keeping them out of a repository. However, they are still public in the sense that they are necessarily visible in the Javascript code sent to the browser. In this use case, it's more of a configuration and organizational tool than a security tool. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to note that putting values like this in a `.env` file in a client application does not make them secure. It helps by keeping them out of a repository. However, they are still public in the sense that they are necessarily visible in the JavaScript code sent to the browser. In this use case, it's more of a configuration and organizational tool than a security tool. 
```

> It's important to note that putting values like this in a `.env` file in a client application does not make then secure. It helps by keeping them out of a repository. However, they are still public in the sense that they are necessarily visible in the Javascript code sent to the browser. In this use case, it's more of a configuration and organizational tool than a security tool. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's important to note that putting values like this in a `.env` file in a client application does not make then secure. It helps by keeping them out of a repository. However, they are still public in the sense that they are necessarily visible in the JavaScript code sent to the browser. In this use case, it's more of a configuration and organizational tool than a security tool. 
```

        <q-btn flat round dense icon="logout" v-if='authState && authState.isAuthenticated' @click="logout"/>
        <q-btn flat round dense icon="account_circle" v-else @click="login"/>
      </q-toolbar>
    </q-header>

    <q-page-container>
      <router-view></router-view>
    </q-page-container>

  </q-layout>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'LayoutDefault',
  data: function () {
    return {
      claims: null
    }
  },
  watch: {
    'authState.isAuthenticated'() {
      this.$log.debug(("watch triggered!"))
      this.updateClaims()
    }
  },
  created() {
    this.updateClaims()
  },
  methods: {
    async updateClaims() {
      if (this.authState && this.authState.isAuthenticated) {
        this.claims = await this.$auth.getUser()
      }
    },
    async login() {
      await this.$auth.signInWithRedirect({originalUri: '/todos'})
    },
    async logout() {
      await this.$auth.signOut()
    }
  },
}
</script>
```
{% endraw %}

This is the top-level component that defines the header bar and includes the router component. The header bar has a login or logout button and will show the authenticated user's email address when logged in.

> The app gets the authenticated user's email address from the JWT claims (a claim is a piece of information asserted about the subject by the authenticating authority). This happens in the `updateClaims()` method, which is triggered when the component is created and is also triggered by a watch method so that it is updated as the authenticated state changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The app gets the authenticated user's email address from the JWT claims. (A claim is a piece of information asserted about the subject by the authenticating authority.) This happens in the `updateClaims()` method, which is triggered when the component is created, and is also triggered by a watch method so that it is updated as the authenticated state changes.
```

Create a new file to encapsulate the resource server access logic.

`src/Api.js`

```js
import axios from 'axios'

const instance = axios.create({

>     baseURL: process.env.VUE_APP_SERVER_URI,

Reviewer: 2 space indents.

        // (R)ead
        getAll() {
            return instance.get( '/todos', {
                transformResponse: [function (data) {
                    return data ? JSON.parse(data)._embedded.todos : data;
                }]
            })
        },

        // (U)pdate
        updateForId(id, text, completed) {
            return instance.put('todos/' + id, {title: text, completed: completed})
        },

        // (D)elete
        removeForId(id) {
            return instance.delete('todos/' + id)
        }
    }
}

export default createApi
```

All of the requests to the server go through this module. Notice that the server URI is hard coded at the top as `SERVER_URL`. In production this would be moved to a config file or an environment variable. Also take a look at how the access token is retrieved from the global `auth` object and injected into every request.

Create the router file.

`src/router/index.js`

```js
import { createRouter, createWebHistory } from 'vue-router'
import { navigationGuard } from '@okta/okta-vue'
import Todos from "@/components/Todos";
import Home from "@/components/Home";
import { LoginCallback } from '@okta/okta-vue'

const routes = [
    {

>         path: '/',

Reviewer: 2 spaces. I'm starting to sound redundant! 2 spaces for JS and 4 for Java.

        component: Home
    },
    {
        path: '/todos',
        component: Todos,
        meta: {
            requiresAuth: true
        }
    },
    { path: '/login/callback', component: LoginCallback },
]

const router = createRouter({
    history: createWebHistory(process.env.BASE_URL),
    routes,
})

router.beforeEach(navigationGuard)

export default router
```

> The router has three paths. The home path and the todos path are straightforward. The last path, `/login/callback`, is provided by the Okta module and it is what handles the login redirect from the Okta servers after authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The router has three paths. The home path and the todos path are straightforward. The last path, `/callback`, is provided by the Okta module and it is what handles the login redirect from the Okta servers after authentication.
```

Because of CLI default.

> The router has three paths. The home path and the todos path are straightforward. The last path, `/login/callback`, is provided by the Okta module and it is what handles the login redirect from the Okta servers after authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The router has three paths. The home path and the todos path are straightforward. The last path, `/login/callback`, is provided by the Okta module to handle the login redirect from the Okta servers after authentication.
```
conciseness

Create the `Home` component.

`src/components/Home.vue`

{% raw %}

> ```vue

Reviewer: I didn't know `vue` was an option!

<template>
  <div class="column justify-center items-center" id="row-container">
    <q-card class="my-card">
      <q-card-section style="text-align: center">
        <div v-if='authState && authState.isAuthenticated' >
          <h6 v-if="claims && claims.email">You are logged in as {{claims.email}}</h6>
          <h6 v-else>You are logged in</h6>
          <q-btn flat color="primary" @click="todo">Go to Todo app</q-btn>
          <q-btn flat @click="logout">Log out</q-btn>
        </div>
        <div v-else>
          <h6>Please <a href="#" @click.prevent="login">log in</a> to access Todo app</h6>
        </div>
      </q-card-section>
    </q-card>

>   </div></template>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  </div>
</template>
```

          <q-btn glossy :color="filter === 'complete' ? 'primary' : 'white'" text-color="black" label="Completed" @click="handleSetFilter('complete')"/>
          <q-btn glossy :color="filter === 'incomplete' ? 'primary' : 'white'" text-color="black" label="Incomplete" @click="handleSetFilter('incomplete')"/>
          <q-tooltip>
            Filter the todos
          </q-tooltip>
        </q-btn-group>
      </q-card-section>
    </q-card>
    <div v-if="error" class="error">
      <q-banner inline-actions class="text-white bg-red" @click="handleErrorClick">
        ERROR: {{this.error}}
      </q-banner>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>

import TodoItem from "@/components/TodoItem";
import { ref } from 'vue'

export default {
  name: 'LayoutDefault',

  components: {
    TodoItem
  },

  data: function() {
    return {
      todos: [],
      newTodoTitle: '',
      visibility: 'all',
      loading: true,
      error: "",
      filter: "all"
    }
  },

  setup () {
    return {
      alert: ref(false),
    }
  },
  mounted() {
    this.$api.getAll()

>         .then(response => {

Reviewer: Is this the default indentation?

Author: It's what Webstorm thinks is correct

Author: I'll reformat everything for 2 spaces.

      todo.completed = value
    },

    handleSetTitle(id, value) {
      let todo = this.todos.find(todo => id === todo.id)
      todo.title = value
    },

    handleShowError(message) {
      this.error = message
    },

    handleErrorClick () {
      this.error = null;
    },

  },

}
</script>

<style>
#row-container {
  margin-top: 100px;
}
.my-card {
  min-width: 600px;
}
.error {
  color: red;
  text-align: center;
  min-width: 600px;
  margin-top: 10px;
}
</style>
```
{% endraw %}

This component encapsulates the card that holds all of the todos, as well as the todo-associated interface elements. It also handles the rest of the functions related to updating todos on the server as well as in the local cache. 

You're welcome to delete the `HelloWorld.vue` component, if you want. Or you can leave it. It's not needed.

## Test the todo app

Make sure the Spring Boot server is still running. In a separate Bash shell, from the resource server directory, run the following command (if it is not already still running)

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

Start the Vue app using the embedded development server. From the client directory:

```bash
npm run serve
```

> Open a browser and navigate to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080). You'll see the "please log in" page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8080`. You'll see the "please log in" page.
```

{% img blog/spring-boot-crud-update/please-log-in.png alt:"Please log in" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

> Log into the app using Okta SSO.

Reviewer: SSO is often associated with our Workforce product so I'm not sure this is the correct description. Any advice, @havi?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Log into the app using Okta's sign-in interface. 
```
OR Okta's sign-in UI. ??

{% img blog/spring-boot-crud-update/okta-login.png alt:"Okta SSO login" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

> That will redirect you to the Todo app main screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That will redirect you to the Todo app's main screen.
```

{% img blog/spring-boot-crud-update/app-main-screen.png alt:"Todo app main screen" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

You should be able to delete items, add new items, rename items, and filter items. All data is stored on the Spring Boot resource server and is presented by the Vue + Quasar frontend. 

## Wrapping up

In this tutorial, you built a Spring Boot resource server backend and a Vue front-end. The Vue client used the latest Vue 3 version with the Quasar framework. The app included full CRUD (create, read, update, and delete) capabilities. It was all secured using Okta.

> If you liked this post, there's a good chance you'll like similar ones:

Reviewer: Did you create a repo for this? What I usually do is use the existing repo from the post this one is redirected from. I created a release to store the old version, then create a PR with the new version. I merge shortly after the post is published. For an example, see https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-boot-saml-example/pull/17 and https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-boot-saml-example/releases.

Author: I linked to the repo in the leankit ticket.
https://github.com/moksamedia/okta-spring-boot-vue-update

Author: I need to update it with these changes and add a README. Will do by tomorrow morning.

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Spring Boot CRUD app with Vue and Quasar"
author: andrew-hughes
by: contractor
communities: [java,javascript]
description: "Build a Spring Boot Todo app with a Vue client using Okta for security and the Quasar framework for client components"
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion

---

> You're going to use Vue and Spring Boot to build a todo list web application. The application will include CRUD abilities, meaning that you will be able to **c**reate, **r**ead, **u**pdate, and **d**elete the todo items on the Spring Boot API via the client. The Vue front-end client will use the Quasar framework for presentation. Both the Spring Boot API and the Vue client will be secured with OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) using Okta as the security provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You're going to use Vue and Spring Boot to build a todo list web application. The application will include CRUD abilities, meaning that you will be able to **c**reate, **r**ead, **u**pdate, and **d**elete the todo items on the Spring Boot API via the client. The Vue frontend client will use the Quasar framework for presentation. Both the Spring Boot API and the Vue client will be secured with OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) using Okta as the security provider.
```
consistency

        })
        this.$refs.newTodoInput.blur()
      }).catch((error) => {
        this.$log.debug(error);
        this.error = "Failed to add todo"
      });
    },
    handleCancelEditingNewTodo() {
      this.newTodoTitle = ""
    },

    handleSetCompleted(id, value) {
      let todo = this.todos.find(todo => id === todo.id)
      todo.completed = value
    },

    handleSetTitle(id, value) {
      let todo = this.todos.find(todo => id === todo.id)
      todo.title = value
    },

    handleShowError(message) {
      this.error = message
    },

    handleErrorClick () {
      this.error = null;
    },

  },

}
</script>

<style>
#row-container {
  margin-top: 100px;
}
.my-card {
  min-width: 600px;
}
.error {
  color: red;
  text-align: center;
  min-width: 600px;
  margin-top: 10px;
}
</style>
```
{% endraw %}

This component encapsulates the card that holds all of the todos, as well as the todo-associated interface elements. It also handles the rest of the functions related to updating todos on the server as well as in the local cache. 

You're welcome to delete the `HelloWorld.vue` component, if you want. Or you can leave it. It's not needed.

## Test the todo app

> Make sure the Spring Boot API is still running. In a separate Bash shell, from the resource server directory, run the following command (if it is not already still running)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure the Spring Boot API is still running. In a separate Bash shell, from the resource server directory, run the following command (if it is not already still running):
```

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

Start the Vue app using the embedded development server. From the client directory:

```bash
npm run serve
```

Open a browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8080`. You'll see the "please log in" page.

{% img blog/spring-boot-crud-update/please-log-in.png alt:"Please log in" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

Log into the app using Okta SSO.

{% img blog/spring-boot-crud-update/okta-login.png alt:"Okta SSO login" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

That will redirect you to the Todo app's main screen.

{% img blog/spring-boot-crud-update/app-main-screen.png alt:"Todo app main screen" width:"1000" %}{: .center-image }

> You should be able to delete items, add new items, rename items, and filter items. All data is stored on the Spring Boot resource server and is presented by the Vue + Quasar frontend. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should be able to delete items, add new items, rename, and filter items. All data is stored on the Spring Boot resource server and is presented by the Vue + Quasar frontend. 
```

## Wrapping up

> In this tutorial, you built a Spring Boot resource server backend and a Vue front-end. The Vue client used the latest Vue 3 version with the Quasar framework. The app included full CRUD (create, read, update, and delete) capabilities. It was all secured using Okta.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you built a Spring Boot resource server backend and a Vue frontend. The Vue client used the latest Vue 3 version with the Quasar framework. The app included full CRUD (create, read, update, and delete) capabilities. It was all secured using Okta.
```
consistency
